# Blackboard Pattern

The Blackboard pattern is a computational design pattern that enables the collaborative processing of complex problems by breaking them down into smaller, specialized components called knowledge sources. These knowledge sources work independently and contribute their partial knowledge to a shared data structure called the blackboard, leading to a collective problem-solving approach.

# Key Components
- Blackboard

    The blackboard is a shared data structure that serves as a central repository for storing intermediate and final results generated by the knowledge sources. It provides a common space where the knowledge sources can read from and write to, enabling communication and coordination among them.

- Knowledge Sources

    Knowledge sources are specialized components that represent different aspects or subproblems of the overall problem. Each knowledge source operates independently, analyzing specific aspects of the problem and contributing their findings to the blackboard. They encapsulate expertise in their respective domains and are responsible for performing computations, applying algorithms, or processing data related to their specific area of knowledge.

- Controller

    The controller acts as the orchestrator of the system, managing the flow of information and interactions between the blackboard and the knowledge sources. It coordinates the execution of the knowledge sources, updates the blackboard with partial results, and retrieves the final result when available. The controller controls the sequencing, timing, and coordination of the knowledge sources' activities.

## Example

**`main.py`** demonstrates how Blackboard pattern can be applied to perform sentiment analysis on a given text. The sentiment analysis system comprises the following components:

- Blackboard: The Blackboard class represents the shared memory where data is stored. 
It provides methods to get and set data.

- Knowledge Sources: We have two knowledge sources:
    - TextExtractor: This knowledge source extracts text from social media data and sets it in the blackboard.
    - SentimentAnalyzer: This knowledge source analyzes the sentiment of the extracted text and sets the sentiment score in the blackboard.

- ResultViewer: The ResultViewer class displays the final result by retrieving the text and sentiment score from the blackboard.

- Controller: The Controller class coordinates the interaction between knowledge sources and the blackboard. It processes social media data by activating the appropriate knowledge sources.

## Usage

To `run the application`, execute the `main.py` file:

```zsh
python3 main.py
```

*Output:*

```zsh
% python3 main.py
Text: I'm feeling great today! It's a beautiful sunny day.
Sentiment: 0.8
```

To `run the tests`, execute the `test.py` file:

```zsh
python3 test.py
```